---
layout: post
title: Week 4 | In the Search for Data
---


This week in class was relatively short due to the holiday weekend but it did not go empty-handed! 

This week, we had two guests come in to give a presentation on data and the kinds of data open-sourced projects can use. Right from the beginning, there was the conversation of the methods of processing data. 
I did not know that thwre were so many methods of processing data. I recall using one of the methods (although very very basically) for processing usernames and passwords froma  website: MySQLi.
However, I did not realize that there was all these different ways of handling data. As I recall, each one of them is tailored to the different type of data. Some languages workred for more dynamic typed data while there were other services that worked for more static data-type.
Overall, it was very interesting. But the second-half was even more interesting to me. It was finding out how to retrieve sets of data and how to source them properly on your work. I was surprised especially by the availability of data on github in form of superlists, lists that maintain a bunch of open-data. 
I was also surprised on how to cite this kind of data, with the author and date-accessed being important components. But I understood that data-sets change all the time and that putting the timeframe of when this data was accessed gives a sense of the version and also relevance for the entire project. Something that is very old will be less relevant than something using a newer data-set.
The amount of resources for accessing data was also surprising. There are websites that even allow you to sort through open-data based on their licenses, which is very useful. 
Just thinking about the kinds of data available is also surprising. There are so many ways to find some of the information that we are looking for and it all depends on the way you handle your search query: what kind of terms you want to use? Etcetera.

Overall, I really enjoyed the talk. It was very interesting to see the way data can be found and organized, outside of the methods I am used to. Rather than the obvious Google search, many resources exist that allows me to search for open-data sets, including within GitHub! This to me was my favorite part because it opens my scope to services outside of the mainstream ones. 