---
layout: post
title: Week 5 | Project Evaluations
---


This week we did Project Evaluations on a couple of sample open-sourced projects. I did not realize the amount of questions I would need to consider when choosing a project. 

I learned that there are varying degrees of complexity when looking at potential ways of contributing to a project. One of which to consider is the flow of contribution. Each project management has different ways of handling the flow of contributions. Some projects have some strict regulations in the way any potential changes will be implemented (including under approval by a committee). I feel like I am more ready to select a project considering the activity that was done on Monday showed me some important questions to consider. I don't have a clear image on which project I want to choose but I have a sort of "mold" that gives me an idea of what I feel would be a good project for me. 

Our invited speaker this week was from Bloomberg and it gave a huge insight on the different ways to consider open-sourced. Kevin Fleming began with the purpose. One of the examples he gave was with Bloomberg's "New Search". Fleming opened with "people want to know what is going on in the world." So, you discuss implementation but then he brought up an important point: if you want fast response time for the customer (in order to ease their side of the product), you need to think on how you want to implement your software. He gave an example of this in practice: stocks. The stocks are constantly changing (showed an example of a graph having a spike on the first second of the market). For this, speed is important and it is something to think about when implementing software. But what about the open-soourced aspect? There are open-sourced tools your software can implement to help your product. One example of this is the availability of failure testing tools for testing your product. Opened-source testing software can be used to test the volatility of your own code and Fleming described that Bloomberg takes advantage of this to be well-prepared for any unexpected events.

Concerning my contributions (to Wikipedia), I noticed it is much easier for me to contribute to things that I already have some knowledge about. My one contribution relates adding a website to a local school that I attended. And this to me is an indicator partly of open-sourced. You can choose to contribute to something you do not know about but it is much easier when it is something you have experience with and are connected with the community. That is the kind of contributions I feel are more comfortable but it is still always nice to be exposed to an environment you don't have much information about from time-to-time. 