---
layout: post
title: Week 11 | The Difficultires with a non-linux development environment
---

There was more difficulties with this installation environment.

I literally made me want to pull my hair out. I did not realize how difficult installing the development environment would be on Windows. Now, this is normally not a problem espeically since step-by-step instructions are available. However one of the biggest problems I ran into from the beginning was the limitation of the Windows 10 Home edition, since it lacked Hyper-V, a requirmeent for Docker, which is a component for Open Food Facts. 
So I decide to do the next best thing, download the Docker toolbox which utilizes VirtualBox for the running of a linux simulated dev environment. Does not sound too bad. Everything goes according to plan until the very end where the docker memory is too small for the backend to run properly. I try making a new Docker container with more memory but nothing decides to happen. This has become something so frustrating. So ultimately, what is there left for me to do?
The only thing possible left for me to do was to spin up an instance from AWS EC2's series. Thanks to the GitHub Education Pack (non-sponsored), I was able to have spare credits to cover the cost of running an instance of the backend.

But then my next problem hits: I need to forward it to a domain name so that I can access it. This was a little difficult, I needed to confer with someone who also installed an Ubuntu instand through AWS via the Slack channel. Thankfully, they were very helpful, which makes me feel like the community is very helpful.Overall, the support available proved to me that this was the right choice in community, as they are responsive and open to new members. 

In other more interesting things, the impact open efforts on Coronavirus. I am so amazed by how much work is being done to make information accessible. The most surprising was seeing government having open GitHub repositories. From New York State, which is really proactive on the issue, to a government like Tokyo's city government, in which Japanese culture is typically more reserved with their copyright material. The effort is astoundign and it's good to see the transparency among these big players in this issue. 

Anyways, that is all, until next week!