---
layout: post
title: Week 3 | Finalizing ClassHelper
---


Well, the project has definitely progressed. In my last blog, I mentioned the debate on how to distribute the work and how to assign even workloads, despite the difference in knowledge of JS.
The settled solution was that we (the weaker JS members) would only work on JSON files in order to code the portion of the project with the trade-off that we would need to learn how to utilize Slack webhooks. We would not be coding it ourselves but we needed to relay the concept to the member who had more experience working with Javascript. 
Working with the group members, I noticed that there was a conflict in the way we worked. One of us was time-constricted for in-person work because of the fact that he is a commuter student. The other part of it is that the other member of the group when he codes does not communicate too much but manages to convey his idea. So there is a trade-off between us. 
During our discussions, I learned of a very nifty code editor called Atom that integrates Github information which makes this really useful. I also got to see how the proficient group member thought when he had to make the main-functionality portion of the program.
Looking at other project presentations, one of the things that I learned was very overlooked was licensing of the components of the project. As I was looking at the presentations, I learned that the projects' licenses is an explicit problem: it needs to be declared or else (as mentioned by Joanna) licenses are All Rights Reserved in the United States.
This impacted the way I was thinking about the project (since we are ending development) because I want to be as opened-source as possible ans I needed to keep in mind the intention of the project might conflict with obtaining free-to-use licenses. 

Overall, all the presentations were interesting. Despite the issues with licenses, the work seemed to be divided among everyone, evenly. Some of the presentations ran into some issues when presenting them in front of the class but the main functionality was there and it leaves it open for contribution. Overall, very interesting.