---
layout: post
title: Week 12 | Relearning CSS for a Small Contribution
---

The time to relearn CSS has arrived.

This is a cold reminder that it is absolutely annoying. The thoughts that come up to my head as I am finishing up these contributions: why are there so many properties to a CSS object. This has become a frustration because Jennifer and Alifa have helped to contribute mostly on the project but now I am in charge of making the final edit to finish it. Yet whenever I change something, everytime I restart docker, nothing happens. I remember running into a problem like this before and it took me a couple of days for me to fix this. Not the most fun.

One of the assignments I need to handle is making sure this is labeled as a Dark Mode toggle. Should not be too hard to place this text. One of the biggest challenges along with a project like this is taking such a big piece of infrastructure and understanding where the part I am working on comes into play. Especially since PERL is one of the bigger components of this project. Regardless, I managed to figure out that some of the properties being assigned to the text, that I did not want, originated from another CSS class already generalizing the entire p tag in HTML. Thankfully I managed to distinguish it through the inclusion of an ID tag to overwrite the properties from within the navigation bar. Overall, this was a little difficult but this is a given for Web Developers and I can say that it is not something I am interested in doing anymore as a career but it was a good learning experience for me.