---
layout: post
title: Week 14 | Presentation and Final Thoughts, Looking Forward
---

We finally did the presentation and it wasn't too bad!

Prior to our presentation (around the day before), we decided to do a trial run of the presentation. By lapping each slide, we would know the slide numbers that take the longest amount of time. One of the key things we noticed that during the trial run, as we would be talking, sometimes we spent some extra time to explain ourselves in simpler terms in order to wrap up the idea properly but the consequences of something like this is that we end up passing the 20 minute mark. Overall it turns into something really messed up.

In the day of the presentation, it was the last run. The one that counted. That was very stressful. We originally wanted to present first but the other groups already took their slot so we were forced to be last. It was very nice though to see Joanna very excited to hear about our project and told us that it really wasn't too bad to be going last. We ended up doing very well! Everything went better timed than the practice run-throughs from the day before. And while we made the class stay an extra few minutes, I feel like we managed to keep them engaged. 

So where do we go from here? Welll I need to continue making contributions both on the individual level and of the project individual level. There continues to be translations placed for the Spanish translatiion of open food facts but it seems there is still some weird translations that were probably done by non-Spanish speakers. I also need to work more on my individual contributions for the course and OpenStreetMap remains too basic for the contributions. Maybe some Wikipedia contributions might come in handy. 

Until next time!