---
layout: post
title: Week 7 | Beginning of the Final Project
---

So from this point onwards, the final project commences. We were paired into groups already and now begins the search for projects. My previous two project evaluations was a little difficult because in the end, I always felt like I was missing an essential component. YouTube-dl it was the ability to comprehend something very abstract. For Jupyter notebook, there was a lot to read up on in terms of the communication between different files of the project. A lot of jumping back and forth to figure out a component and this is a common issue for someone who wants to contribute to this project. 

For this project, we began to look at the different evaluations to choose something carefully. We did not want to find something complex because we want to prevent the scenario I encountered when doing my two project evaluations. We spent time (on Zoom haha) looking through some potential projects and we were really focusing on the density of the project. We managed to narrow down to two projects (although it is still open to more potential projects). the first one is OpenFoodFacts. For this one, we think it can be a good opportunity to learn some HTML since it is an essential nowadays for some developers. And while the repository has a lot of sub-folders that communicate with each other, the idea is consistent with the entire project. The second project that we had in mind is Tuxeman: a cute game that is coded in python. This is a little more complicated than OpenFoodFacts in the sense that all the files have different coding goals. But they are divided enough where the idea is specific enough to code. Normally, the alternative is a problem because people report an issue and it is too broad and you need to have a real clear idea of the project functionality in order to know how to implement it. However, the way the project is divided, implementation should not be a problem. It is relatively small so that is also a plus.

One of the struggles now that we have with this project is that we have transitioned to an online workspace, rather than meeting up in the classroom. This is going to present a challenge for us because we need to come up with a time to synchronize our meetups. We are utilizing Zoom for communication but this is a little new for each of us so finding the way around this is going to be difficult. I am sure in due time we will have this figured out. Overall, I will keep looking for more potential projects but also expand my thinking on the current projects we have in mind. 