---
layout: post
title: Week 13 | Preparing for the Final Presentation
---

Running through the final week: individuals contributions and the slides for the final presentation.

So we are nearing the end of the semester. One of the primary goals for me is to focus on individual contributions. Based on my previous blog posts, you have seen my thoughts throughout the development of the project but one of the problems was that setting up the development environment has taken such a long time, that making individual contributions were not possible until now. And this is something that has me very nervous considering it is quite close to the end of the semester. 

Another primary concern of mine is getting individual contributions outside of the project done. This is usually not something I worry about because I just like to go on OpenStreetMap and start populating the map with information about my neighborhood BUT this is still concerning because I do feel like I need diversity in the contributions that I make. I was so busy setting up the development environment that I lacked in both project-related and generic individual contributions.

As we prepare for the presentation, timing is going to be key. 	We need to fulfill the 20 minute mark. This sounds scary at first but we already made 30 slides which means we need less than a minute on each slide which is not too bad after all. But this still presents a challenge because the content per slide is sno equivalent and there will be slides where we want to elaborate more on. This along with the pressure of presenting in a group environment is going to be potential set backs in accomplishing the less-than-1-minute-per-slide goal. I will keep you updated.

Until next time...