---
layout: post
title: Week 9 | Continuation of the Continuation of the Selection
---

So we continued discussion of the discussion of the project. If that sounds redundant that's because it is. But in the good way. 

This is going to be a project I will be devoting long periods of time for. This means I need to be in constant communication, not only with my partners, but also with the community I am planning on interacting with. This week's focus was to learn more about merging and rebasing. This is the most complicated thing. I have never had something this complicated to learn the differences about. To me at first, this all seemed like the same thing and I could not understand why I would even want to rebase. But after trying out the little activities from Joanna, I can understand that it is mostly a bunch of commits placed over another branch, rather than actually trying to combine everything into one single branch. Overall, my simple explanation does not do this justice.

But besides all of this, we have also been working on delivering our pitch to Joanna. We need to prove that we can show our confidence in this project. We also need to not get grilled over the logistics. If we can accomplish these two, then we are set for choosing this project. The day arrives, Friday morning I am tired as hell but I feel more than ever to defend my project to Joanna, and so does my group. We all get on Zoom. I don't know how we did it, but we seemed to convince her pretty fast. I am sure it was with our knowledge on HTML and the help we can get from Jennifer (shoutout via this blog) that will realy help us work on this project. I also got back my contributions for the month and wow I am far behind on this. However, I am going to catch up. I am going to set up a schedule every two days to make a contribution (no matter how big or how small) in order to fill up that list substantially. If I am going to have a habit, I might as well make it a good one!