---
layout: post
title: Week 2 | Intro to ClassHelper + Production
---


Work on "ClassHelper" has finally begun. This is arguably one of the hardest parts of the process of this project. There are several things that need to be balanced.
The first thing to keep in balance is what the scope of our project is going to be. We need to ask ourselves: "what services and features do we want to implement in our extension and what kind of resources can we use?"
 The other thing that we needed to think about is the fact that there are different levels of understanding of JavaScript among the group members. 
 Two of us (of the three-person group) have little knowledge on the fundamentals of JavaScript. This is very important because we need to create a workload that will give the same difficulty for everyone but be tailored to their level.
 Currently, we are working off a basic template for the extension taken from the first activity. However, at the end of this week, we are still in the process of planning the functionality of the activity. The general idea is there: to shorten the number of steps in between the extension and another service (decided to be Slack).
 I realized in the process of planning this out, my abilty to communicate my ideas was a lot better than I expected. I offered a possibility to utilize the Slack service's integration but I wanted to convey the response of the extension in a way that all the group members would be able to understand, which involved my art skills in a notebook.
 I also learned that it's a little more difficult working in a group environment. The vision my team-member has might not be as clear to me as someone else's so (the way I did my view) we resorted to visuals through drawing. We had to come up with ways to convey our ideas so that we are not limited to only our words.
 