---
layout: post
title: Week 1 | Exposure to Open Source
---

The way I like to think about open-source is like when they say "sharing is caring". It feels less selfish. 
Open source to me is an open book where people can write (in an organized fashion). 
It allows for more than one mind to think about a problem and gives way to more creative solutions.
But sometimes it's important to ask oneself: where can this go wrong? I have seen some github projects going very well.
But I did hear about the horror stories for some repositories. And this is frankly where opensource really faces difficulties.
The idea of having decentralized work environments can make working on a product efficient until someone has a different idea.
In addition, your code is available online for anyone to see which means privacy is not expected. 
While there are regulations on copyright and licenses for the content, sensitive information is never a good idea to put there.


There are some projects that I use on a day-to-day basis that still amazes me that they are open-sourced.
Among one of these is Anki, a flashcard SRS (spaced-repitition-system) application that I use for my Japanese studies.
Another one that I remember as I am writing this is Notepad++. Always made my code-editing in C++ a breeze but it was done with the contribution of a community.
I use an application like Slack called "Discord" but I once wanted to program a bot so I ended up using a Java Library that was open-sourced. 
Other times, I use an application like YouTube called "Twitch" where I watch some livestreams and it includes and IRC chat. I once wanted to make a Twitch bot that takes inputs from the IRC chat and puts it into the game. This was something I used from my friend's repository called "TRBot" which actually derives from other open-sourced code.
One that is not very much known is when I need to convert files from .mkv's to .mp4's for the purpose of video-editing in Premiere Pro. For this, I utilize a service called Handbrake that has all their code up on GitHub and allows external contributions. 
Overall, the more I think about this, the more I realize there are a lot more open-sourced products that I use and just never realized. They work like a charm in figuring out how something works. I honestly take it for granted.
